Okay, so let's have a look
at Amazon EventBridge and see what this service is about.
So we have lots of options.
We have the EventBridge rules,
the pipes to connect event sources,
the schedule to invoke a target on a regular schedule
and the schema registry to organize your schema.
So lots of things to look at,
but first, let's go deep into the main thing of EventBridge,
which are rules.
So rules are a way for you to react
to events happening in your account.
For example, EC2InstanceStateChangeDemo.
So this rule is going to be triggered
whenever there is an event that happens in your account,
which is that an EC2 instance state changes.
And so for this we're going to have a rule type of rule
with an event pattern.
Click on next and then we're going to react to AWS events.
And then this event is going to follow a pattern form.
And here we can look for services and choose the service.
We can choose EC2,
and then the instance type
called Instance State-change Notification.
So here, as you can see, for event source,
you have a lot of options.
So either AWS services or EventBridge partners
and we'll have a look at those in a second.
And for the type of service,
you have all of them pretty much.
And so for each service, you will have an event type
and again, they can be described
in the documentation, for example.
So here we want to have a look
at whenever an EC2 instance state changes.
What does that mean?
Well, we can select the state
and, for example, we want to be notified
whenever an instance is either shutting down
or is terminated
because, for example, say that we think
that this is a problem in our account when this happens,
or we wanna be at least be aware of it.
So now this EventBridge rule is going
to be triggered every time this happens.
And then we click on next.
We need to select a target.
So what happens when this is triggered?
Well, a target could be, for example,
that we want to select an SNS topic
and send a notification to a topic.
But you can see you have lots and lots and lots of options
around what you can do for targets
of EventBridge rules.
For example, you can stop an instance,
terminate an instance,
start an ECS task, trigger another function, send a message
to SNS or SQS, and so on.
So we'll choose SNS and we'll say, okay,
we want to send it into a topic.
So you would have to go into SNS and create a topic.
I'll do this very quickly.
Demotopic.
And then we're going to just create it.
Now back here, I can refresh this and choose my demotopic.
Perfect.
And if this topic was hooked to an email
as a subscription, then we would receive an email every time
an EC2 instance state changes.
So we'll click on next, next.
And here we go, we have created our first EventBridge rule.
So that's extremely powerful as you can see.
The other type of rule we can create is a schedule,
for example, run every hour.
And so you click on continue in EventBridge Scheduler.
And actually this takes us to a new UI.
So before we were in events, in buses,
now we are in Scheduler.
And here we can set up something to happen every hour,
for example, okay, you want to have a recurring schedule
and you want it to be every one hour.
You can do rate every one hour, then something will happen.
So we can select a flexible time window, click on next,
and then you choose what happens.
So every one hour, for example,
you can invoke a Lambda function,
for example, to do a cleanup of something on your account
or to send a message to SQS
to trigger an automation or whatever you want.
As you can see, you have a lot of different options
or you can even choose any API you want for any service,
which is incredible.
So I'm not gonna go ahead with it,
but this is how you would set up a schedule,
a recurring schedule, or a one-time schedule if you wanted
to have something run only once.
Okay, so now we have event buses.
So by default we have an event bus called default,
which is the main event bus of your account.
But if you want to have different rules
for different event buses, you can click on event buses
and you can actually create an event bus.
You specify the name of it, you specify encryption.
And then this will be a way for you
to have rules specifically for that event bus.
And the goal of it is to have separation, for example,
of security, to have a special event bus, for example,
for targets, and events that may be super important to you.
You can replay events in Amazon EventBridge as well
in order for you to have a look
and do some debugging if you need to.
Okay, other things you can do
is to have a look at the partner event sources.
So on top of having events from AWS within your account
for any type of events that can happen
for specific services, you can also have specific partners
that will trigger events in your account.
For example, you can set up Auth0 integration
and for example, when the user signs up on Auth0,
it can send an event directly into Amazon EventBridge.
And from there you can run any type of rules
and automation you want.
So the idea is that this becomes a bridge,
hence the name EventBridge, between many SaaS software
and service you may use online
and your AWS infrastructure without you writing any type
of Glue code, like code
to link these things together, which is amazing.
And finally, well, you can also send the rules
to specific API destinations to send it outside of AWS,
for example, to invoke a specific bit of architecture
that's outside of your account if you need to.
It could be an external API that belongs to you
or to, for example, a SaaS
that you need to have integration with.
So EventBridge is super powerful.
And finally you have the schema registry for you
to have a look at all the different types
of event schemas in AWS.
For example, we can look at the EC2 instance state.
Let's see if we find it. No, we don't find it, it's okay.
But you can look at any of these events
and it will tell you the type
of things you can expect in the JSON of the event
and the type for each of the things.
So if it's a string and so on,
or an array of string, a date-time and so on.
And out of it, you can download code bindings
for any of these programming languages.
And that means
that you can automatically develop applications
that use events in EventBridge directly
without you setting up the schema
or the code for the schema.
And you can get started with Java,
Python, TypeScript and Go.
So all of it is super helpful.
EventBridge is a super helpful service.
As a general rule, remember how to use rules for sure
and how to use schedules for sure.
All right, that's it, I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.